h1. Data Model for Mydvds

h2. Users

*Type:* HASH
*Keyname:* user:<user_id>

h3. Fields

* email (string)
* firstname (string)
* lastname (string)
* joinDate (date)
* lastLogin (datetime)
* referredBy (user_id)

h3. Counters

h4. users_maxid

h3. Indexes

h4. All Users

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* users_all

h4. Subscribers

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* users_subscribers

h4. Confirmed Users

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* users_confirmed

 
h4. Pending Users

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* users_pending



h2. Dvds

*Type:* HASH
*Keyname:* dvd:<dvdid>

h3. Fields

* title (string)
* barcode (string)
* status (string enum: public, private, pending)
* addedBy (user_id)
* addedOn (datetime)
* modifiedOn (datetime)

h3. All Dvds

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* dvds_all

h2. Loans

*Type:* HASH
*Keyname:* loan:<loan_id>


h3. Fields

* lendee ID (user_id)
* lend_date  (datetime)
* return_date  (datetime)
* list_item_id  (item_id)
* lender_id (user_id)
* lender_email (email)

h3. Users loans

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* loans:<user_id>

h2. Collections

Each user has one or more lists.
All users start with a predefined list called 'mydvds'.

h3. Collection

*Type:* ZSET
*Keyname:* collection:<user_id>:collection_name

Each value in the set is a dvd_id.

Sorted set is used to allow users to create arbitrary display sort order for the
set of their dvds within a collection.

A list of all users collections is not kept, instad can be fetched using redis
keys wildcarded search.

h3. Lists/Sets

There is a set of collection names for each user.

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* user:<user_id>:collections

h2. Friends

h3. Users loans

*Type:* SET
*Keyname:* friends:<user_id>

